=pod

=encoding utf8

=head1 The Hive Query Tool

The Hive Query Tool (HQT, for short) is a web-interface for running reports
using L<Apache Hive|http://hive.apache.org>. It is intended, first and
foremost, to be as easy-to-use as possible for non-technical people, while
allowing them to customize the reports they run with a high degree of
flexibility - well beyond simple variable substitution.

=head2 Installation

Installation is actually quite easy, and the HQT builds and runs successfully
on a surprising variety of platforms. Still, there are some known prerequisites
and you'll have to install & configure those properly on your own.

=head3 Requirements & Compatibility

The currently known compatible platforms and system requirements

=head4 Compatible Platforms

The HQT has been successfully installed and run on the following platforms:

=over 4

=item * CentOS 5.x (with a newer perl installed under /opt)

=item * CentOS 6.x

=item * Fedora Core 17 & 18

=item * Ubuntu 12.04 thru 13.04

=item * Mac OS X 10.8.x (Mountain Lion)

=item * Possibly others. Please let us know!

=back

Whatever platform you use, you will have to ensure you have certain other
components installed and/or configured in order to install and run the HQT.

=head4 System Prerequisites

The base requirements that should be installed and configured on your system
prior to installing and/or running the HQT are as follows:

=over 4

=item * A *nix or *nix-like environment

=item * Perl 5.10.1 or newer

=item * Hadoop and Hive client binaries and libraries

=item * A JVM that works with the installed Hadoop and Hive, um... stuff

=item * A C Compiler and standard build toolchain (gcc/xcode known to work)

=item * OpenSSL libs and development headers

=back

For additional functionality like being able to authenticate users and run
jobs as those users, you will also need the following:

=over 4

=item * Sudo

=item * LDAP client libraries (and possibly binaries)

=item * An LDAP server your users authenticate against

=back

It's very possible there are other requirements. Please, please B<please> file
a bug report for anything you needed that isn't described above!

=head4 Notes about the Requirements

Perl 5.10.1 or newer is required. It was released in 2009, so it's
already fairly old (the most recent released version of perl is 5.18.0
as of my writing this comment in 2013). However, RHEL/CentOS 5.x is stuck
with Perl 5.8.8 or thereabouts, which is positively I<ancient> - we're talking
2005-2006!

If you really think you're "stuck", you're not. There are a variety of
ways to get a newer perl to make this work. The simplest and safest
option is to use C<perlbrew>. Perlbrew automates the entire process of
getting, configuring, building, and using any version of perl you want.

You don't need to be root (in fact, I strongly discourage you from
installing anything perl-related as root unless it's a package straight
from your OS vendor's repos), and you don't even need the CPAN to install it.
Instructions are all here: L<https://metacpan.org/module/App::perlbrew>

=head3 Obtaining the Code

The official main source-code repository for the HQT is currently on
L<GitHub|https://github.com> under the
L<TripAdvisor Organization|https://github.com/tripadvisor>, specifically...
here: L<https://github.com/tripadvisor/hive-query-tool>

You very well might be reading that web page right now :)

You can download any version, revision, or branch you wish in a multitude of
ways, using C<git>, C<svn>, or just download via HTTP as a compressed archive,
which you can then unpack locally.

=head3 Setup/Installation Procedure

B<Please do *not* do any of this as the root or admin user of your system>.
While the HQT setup script does its best to install all of the CPAN modules
it depends on in a way that is isolated and therefore I<should> have no effect
on the system perl, installing as root is unnecessary and always risky. In
most *nix-like environments, too many things depend on the system perl being
"just so" and if something changes it, fixing the problem can be a nightmare.

As you were.

Start on a system that meets the minimum HQT requirements
L<described above|/"System Prerequisites">, and B<as a non-root user>
obtain and/or unpack the source code and enter the top-level directory,
where you will find a copy of this very file (if you're not already reading
that copy!)


=head4 Run the setup script

This script will basically do almost everything. You'll need a connection to
the internet because it downloads all the HQT's dependencies from the CPAN.
You won't even need a CPAN client already installed, as this script will
download one to bootstrap the whole process.

If you run:

  ./hqt-setup

It will check if the default perl on your system is new enough and if it isn't
it will look in a few common places for one. If it it can't find a new enough
version of perl on its own, it will give up and exit with an error.

If you want to use a specific installation of perl, for example, one you
installed using L<perlbrew|https://metacpan.org/module/App::perlbrew> then
pass the path to that perl binary as an option to the setup script, like so:

  ./hqt-setup ~/perl5/perlbrew/perls/perl-5.16.3/bin/perl

Go get yourself a cup of coffee. Maybe order a pizza. The first run can take
a while as the entire dependency chain is resolved, downloaded, built, tested
and installed. We've pared back some of the direct dependencies though, so
it's now a lot less time than it used to be.

Once done, it's usually good to run it again, just to make sure there's really
nothing more it has to install. If it succeeds without installing anything
then you should be all set!

If the setup script did not succeed and running it repeatedly makes no
difference, please file a bug report on GitHub.

=head2 Configuration

TODO: describe what needs to go in C<conf/hqt_config.yaml>

=head2 Running

TODO: describe how to run the frontend with C<start-frontend> and the backend
with C<start-backend> and the options they may take...

=head2 More Information

More information can be found in the POD of the various modules, which, if
you C<source hqt-setup> you can read with either C<man> or C<perldoc>.

Also, I may end up putting info in the wiki GitHub provides for the project.

Basically, the documentation is still horribly incomplete and hard to find.
We're working on it, though. (patches welcome!)

=head2 Credits

Thanks to everybody who's helped develop the HQT, whether it be through
code, documentation, bug reports or feature requests!

I<< ~ B<Stephen R. Scaffidi>, initial author and current primary maintainer >>

Special thanks to:

=over 4

=item * I<< B<Rashmi Nayak>, lots and *lots* of code, especially web stuff >>

=item * I<< B<Bill Langenberg>, code, documentation, feature requests, and more >>

=back

=head2 License and Copyright

  Copyright 2013 TripAdvisor, LLC

  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.

=cut
